Let's talk about overriding
inherited methods.
So methods that we have
inherited from a superclass.
What if we don't want
that implementation and
we wanna override it to
do something different.
That is allowed, all right?
So we are going to create a square
class that inherits from rectangle and
we're going to override its
calculate parameter method, right?
Now, if we go to our IDE,
I'm gonna close these out.
And remember.
We already created a rectangle.
Where did we create that?
We created a rectangle in the objects.
So just for fun, let's go ahead and
inherit from that class, okay?
So we'll make a new Java class
we'll call this one square.
And in order to inherit,
what must we write.
>> Extends.
>> Extends, and what else?
>> And the parent class, rectangle.
>> Rectangle, all right?
And so, now, this square class
is inherited from rectangle.
Rectangle was not in this package,
so, we did need to import it.
When we inherited from the rectangle
class, we get all of the rectangles
goodies for free,
including the calculate parameter method.
However, we do want to override that
to a specific calculation for square.
So in order to override it.
We're going to recreate that method,
it has to have
the exact same signature,
of the method you inherited.
So, I never try to type it out,
cuz I might make a mistake, right?
And instead I just go ahead and
copy, the signature.
So we'll just copy this from rectangle and
we'll paste it inside of square.
And to override this we will
simply change the body, okay?
So we change it to whatever
we want right here.
Before we change the body,
now I copied this over, right?
There's another measure you can take
just in case you type it out yourself.
And it's also just a good practice,
convention not required.
But you can do an @override
above the method.
This tells Java and
also tells any other programmer that might
run across this code that
this method you inherited and
you're overriding its implementation.
Now, this is helpful with
the compiler because let's say,
I just couldn't spell and I did this.
And when I was trying to type it out,
notice here I now have an error and
they're saying you didn't inherit this
method what are you talking about, right?
And I know I messed something up,
all right?
So that's a really helpful
way to catch any mistakes.
Okay, inside of the calculate perimeter,
we'll change this to
return sides × length.
All right, and
we have a little problem here, right?
It's saying it doesn't
know sides are length.
If we go to rectangle, why might that be?
>> They're private.
>> They are private.
So when you inherit from something,
the superclass only
gives its child class the things
that are not private.
Private means its scope
just to this class.
So it's a good practice
if you're okay with other
classes extending you
to make this protected,
so that'll still give
you that encapsulation,
but other classes can
utilize these fields.
All right, and
now notice we don't have size or
length declared in this class explicitly,
but
it inherited those fields
from its parent rectangle.
>> Does it also imply that it has access
to those getters and setters as well?
>> Yes, so those are public, so
it definitely has access to these, okay?
All right, questions on overriding.
Yes.
>> Do you only need to change what you're
trying to use in a different class
to protect it or do you have to
change everything to protect it?
>> Only the things that
you want inherited.
Now, in real life, there may be
classes that you want to inherit from,
maybe they're from the Java library, and
you won't have access to modify
those access modifiers like that.
So, you only can change it if it's
within your own code base, right?
>> Any reason not to.
>> The other way you could have done this.
So let's say you did not own this class,
you have no permission to change
this stuff to protect it.
But you want to still inherit from it.
You can simply use the getter and
setter methods.
So get sides × get length,
because that was the purpose
of encapsulation, right?
Utilize my methods, not my fields.
So if we were to say rectangle like we
had a new object rectangle.calculate
perimeter which method would it run
the one in rectangle or the one in square?
>> Cause of the over?
>> Yeah, so you overrode it.
So if we had a square object and
we said square.calculate perimeter,
it'll run the overwritten implementation,
okay?
So let's go inside of
inheritance tester and
we are going to check for
the overridden method, okay?
So we'll say square which is the subclass,
right?
Square = new square.
And we'll say square.calculateperimeter.
Now we haven't set any of the fields yet,
right?
So we need to do that.
Let's say square.set length.
What was it?
Side and sorry.
Square side × length, okay.
So, side was already set to four and
rectangle
remember hard-coded so
we just say the length.
Let's say 25 oops 25, so
that we have a nice, what?
100, okay,
rectangle will we get that same number?
Possibly, two times the length and
two times the width, no,
because width is not even set right?
Right, okay [LAUGH], so let's run this to
make sure that it ran
the overriding method.
I need to print it out,
okay, print out this.
And boom we got a 100, okay?